# The-digital-world-is-more-real-than-the-offline-world-

The digital world is the one we create, the one we share with a lot of people from other places, sometimes we know that people in the offline life, but some others we don't; the offline world, on the other hand, is the one we share only with the people near to us, this is always tought to be the "real" one, because is the one you live day by day just by waking up. Now a days, the digital and the offline world are part of one person identity and life in general, the most important difference between the offline world and the digital one, could be the way we interact with other people, some people feels a lot more confortable being infront of a computer than talking with people face to face, and this does not mean that relationship is not real, it's just different, because this people are still real and the things or toughts they're sharing are real for them. The digital media and social networks makes the interaction between people that are far away easier, this does not make any of this worlds less real than the other, this just mekes them different.

The idea of what world is more real, digital or offline I believe is like the plot of [Digimon](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h5kmqxh_k6E) or Matrix, where the characters can change their reality, but in this context the digital world is only a reflection of the offline world, a reflection where the people maybe feel more freedom in words of Oscar Wilde: 
>“Give a man a mask and he’ll tell you the truth.”

And that´s the digital world a mask, or maybe a party of mask when the people change many qualities, proyect something in a more easy way but the reality becomes attached to something basic, to exist and in the real world your you cannot stop doing it whereas in the digital world you can leave to exist only with put your status on offline or delete your profile, i thinks the question is where can i exist in the digital world? 

>“Sharing is good, and with digital technology, sharing is easy.” Richard Stallman. 

Technology is supposed to make us life easier, allowing us to do things faster and what makes us sharing stuff online really easy, nowadays social media is changing the way we communicate with others and how people perceive us, both positively and negatively. Every time you post a photo, or upgrade your state, you're helping to create your own fingerprint and personal brand, showing only what you want to show the world, so in the digital universe, our personal history is reflected in our profile  in any social network, a snapshot reflects our life in a present or so that's what we intend to do because it is not always real, because we put our best face to reflect what we want to reflect and not necessarily what it is.

The fact is that when you are face to face you can´t hide your true self because every real life conversation can simply not happen with any robot or any digital connection.

We can spend a lot of time of our life’s connected to internet it’s interesting so we don’t get bored and this tool can actually help us in a lot of ways to be more productive. With the arrival of new platforms where people can take their life’s into a public level, words and actions take an important role in order to stay after a long time and have repercussions in others, maybe that’s one of the main reasons why we find newer and newer social networks as well as communities of people that share the same points of views. At the end of the day all what we do sitting in front of a desk and posting on internet is part of our life, the fact that we cannot actually touch what we upload does not make it any less real because it’s something that happened through our actions in an specific time and place, in this case a computer and net. Even If we erase “something” done, that simple thing detonates a series of events that even they are very small have some repercussions not only in our lives but someone else’s even then there will be always be a hint of what we are actually doing. 
For this reasons people should be more intelligent at the moment of making updates, everyone should think ahead of “What could happened”, digital life depends on us as we are making us of it so If we interact with positive content from everyone then we will rise our reputation in the communities we are active. Everything, online, becomes enhanced in good ways like our actions, relations, words, life offline. 
Digital world is as real as offline world because both have consequences and rewards, one bad decision can make it or break it in different ways. What we do speaks for ourselves so what we see or write ultimately will become what we will get from both worlds. 


References:
https://medium.com/social-media-7/social-media-the-death-of-real-world-interaction-5e2f33cfd8ee
